well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're going to talk about
trump's gift to putin
and it was a gift make no mistake about
it it was not punishment it was not
obtaining leverage
it was it was a gift
to understand how much of a gift you
have to understand what the treaty
really was
the media is doing a really bad job of
explaining that
putin has indicated for the last
decade that he wanted out of a tree out
of this treaty
and trump just opened the door for him
so the treaty was negotiated by people
who actually knew how to negotiate
on behalf of the u.s back in
87 and uh
you know they didn't just write a book
about making deals they made them
and in this case the united states
walked away with everything
and the soviet union walked away with
nothing to uh
use putin's terminology the leaders of
the soviet union were naive
and he was right that's a pretty good
uh pretty good summation
of that treaty it was entirely in the
us's favor
all of it so what it was
it did two things banned short and
intermediate range missiles
that were land-based and that's the
critical part
land-based
intermediate range means i want to say
it's
3480 miles it's less than 3 500 miles
how about that
um it's that or less
go ahead and pull up a map and take a
look
the us doesn't use them why because we
have the atlantic and the pacific
that we have to cross over there's no
targets
within that range you can find some
minor targets in russia that could be
reached from intermediate range of
land-based missiles in alaska
but that's it not it is not
a piece of our strategic deterrence in
any way shape or form
geography eliminated that for us we
didn't need it
so of course we're totally willing to
give it up back in 87
because we didn't need it russia however
does
our intermediate range missiles are
seabourn they're in subs
or they're launched from the sky russia
then
or the soviet union then and russia
today
don't have that kind of infrastructure
they can't do that
um the u.s air force controls the sky
all over the world and that's not
national pride showing that that's just
objective statement effect there is not
an air force on the planet
that can touch the united states air
force
so we don't need land-based missiles
we have no use for them whatsoever
russia does because as nato expands
and picks up more and more former warsaw
pact countries
their opposition gets closer and closer
to their borders
so that means they need them that's why
putin wanted them now somebody's going
to say well they were developing them
anyway
probably i mean yeah i mean i don't
i haven't seen the intelligence
firsthand but i'd be willing to bet they
were
all major powers ignore their treaties
but
by removing it and letting them out of
the treaty the way he did
they now no longer have to hide it and
when you're doing something in violation
the treaty gets really expensive
it's really hard to do because you have
to keep it secret
they don't have to do that anymore
now somebody else will say well obama
could have fixed this problem
no he couldn't not really um obama
at least understood his administration
understood that they were no match for
putin um
and that's uh putin is like our air
force
when it comes to the international scene
a community organizer from chicago
is not going to stand a chance against
a real xkgb agent and he wasn't
former kgb the way you know george bush
senior was xcia it wasn't a political
job
he was actually out in the field um so
obama's administration did the right
thing they passed
they were not the administration to
tackle this neither is trump's
the difference was that obama at least
knew his limitations
trump is either
well i'll leave that out of that um
it's a gift we'll leave it at that this
this certainly appears to be a gift to
putin
and at the end of the day
we walk away by
with removing the only obstacle they
have to developing weapon systems that
threaten our european allies
we have thrown europe under the bus
and that's really all there is to it now
the scary part about this is what
happens next
another arms race is very possible
and and and god help us all
trump is not kennedy trump is not reagan
trump cannot handle brinksmanship can
you imagine that on twitter
the other thing that it did was that it
gave countries like north korea and iran
why should they follow any treaties the
us doesn't
russia didn't pull out of this we did
um this was a mistake on a grand scale
and it's going to have repercussions for
a very very long time
um so
that's that's kind of a a glimpse into
it into the
the underbelly of it you know there
there's the political stuff that's going
on
that everybody's talking about but the
the end result
the hard facts of it is that the u.s
opened the door and got rid of the
only obstacle that was standing in
russia's way
of developing weapon systems that can
annihilate entire cities
in europe and we got nothing for it and
we will get nothing for it
because contrary to what
trump's administration seems to believe
putin has no interest in being in this
treaty
you know the idea is what we're going to
pull out if you don't uh
you know come back into uh
compliance within six months
they they don't want to be in the treaty
they have no interest in being in it
and that's part of uh
part of what i was talking about with
putin
you know when u.s politicians want to
blow off steam and they sit around
have a couple beers they play poker he
plays chess
and it just showed anyway it's just a
thought
y'all uh y'all have a good night